---
published: false
title: On saving 💰
layout: post
tags: [money, fire, saving, lessons learned]
cover_url: /assets/posts/wisdom.jpg
position: 100
---

One of the wisest woman in my life was my Grandmother. She always imparted wisdom on me, she knew all the Dutch sayings and expressions. She sang her wisdom to me as lullebies. In my eyes she was The Wise One.

She was also a wealthy woman and knew how to handle money. She always told me _save up kiddo, you'll have something for a rainy day._ She just didn't mention _how_ to save. But I can't blame her, only myself, I had to ask better questions. However she has long past and asking her, well, that is out of the question.

As for me - I didn't always make wise choices when it came to money. Money has always had this mystical allure to it. And I had no clue on how to handle it. Overdue bills _all the time_. Paycheck in? Time to spend! And ofcourse there was the whole experimental drug phase. Had my own company twice. Once made the mistake of actually spending everything I made. And forgetting you have to pay taxes... The other time I just sucked _overal_ at running a company.

I'll categorise this as 'lessons learned' and paid for by the school of life. It was a very expensive school. €25.000  expensive. At least now I'm wiser. _A little._

I'm 36 now and I've spend the last two and a half years getting out of dept. I didn't know it by then but along the way I've set the ground work for a framework for saving money. Learning _how to save_ was for me an eyeopener. What I've used to do is _saving what you have after spending_. Which, turns out is all wrong.

For every paycheck that comes in I put away one tenth. If I were to make €1800 per month that would come down to €180. I put that on a savings account and don't touch it. Not even when I have a piece of month left at the end of my paycheck. This forces me to do a couple of things. Save. Save on my spendings, because I'm missing 180 euros per month. So I need to really think on what to buy.

### Automated saving.

